lxl-web/src/routes/(app)/[[lang=lang]]/about/en.md, before:

---
title: 'Help'
---

# About

<i>WARNING: Automated machine translation</i>

### Why a Public Beta?

This public beta version of the upcoming service is a step toward gathering valuable feedback from real users. We are working toward transparency and inclusion to achieve a successful result. This means that the beta version is being shared before all functionality is in place or fully developed.

### Share Your Thoughts on the New Libris

You're welcome to try out the service and [share your feedback through this form](https://survey.kb.se/librisbeta/en). Your opinions matter!

You can find [answers to frequently asked questions in the FAQ](https://www.kb.se/samverkan-och-utveckling/libris/fragor-och-svar-om-libris-nya-soktjanst.html).

### General Information About the Search Service

The new Libris search service will eventually replace libris.kb.se. The old service is technically outdated and needs to be replaced, not least to meet legal requirements for accessibility in digital public services.

This beta version is a first step toward a service that will bring several improvements for users.

A cornerstone of Libris is the information model based on linked data used to describe the content of the catalogue. The new service is built with a more direct connection to this model, making it both simpler and technically more robust. It also means that changes made using the Libris cataloguing tool are reflected in the search service without delay.

The goal is also to build a more user-friendly interface while improving and expanding many of the existing features.
With a more data-oriented design, some of the text may initially feel more technical than before. This is something we will continue to refine. The visual style and graphic design of the service will also evolve and improve over time.

### A Selection of Planned Improvements

- Improved layout and information in the search result list
- Better presentation and selection of information on detail pages
- Improved categorization of material (types), such as book, e-book, poster, newspaper instead of “text, electronic” (see below)
- Enhanced interface for advanced search functionality
- Ability to save searches and material lists
- Citation tools
- Searching within specific subsets
- Libris as a local library catalogue

### Improved material categorization:

The material categories (or "types") visible in the current beta version will eventually be replaced if they are not clear enough. Terms like "Text, print", "Instance", "Monographic resource", and so on will be replaced with clearer terms such as "Journal", "Audiobook", "Poster", and "Postcard". The goal is understandable and usable types that will stand the test of time.

In today’s libris.kb.se, labels like “book”, “e-book”, and “poster” are calculated in the search service in a complicated way, based on a multitude of data points. This unnecessary complexity is partly due to the limitations that existed in the catalog when the service was developed. Alongside the development of the new search service, we are now working to improve the catalog's data and information model. Because the new search service more directly reflects the catalog, improvements will be visible as soon as they are made.

Different terms and degrees of precision may still be needed in different contexts. However, these differences can largely be captured in the common catalog model instead of being tightly bound to different services, as they are today.

## Version Information

Here we will continuously provide information about newly added features and planned developments:

### 2025-05-13

- Design updates
- Filter on free online material
- Bug fixes

### 2025-04-24

- Ability to set and filter on favourite libraries

### 2025-03-11

- Add advanced search functionality

### 2024-11-07

- Cookie settings

### 2024-10-14

- Improvements in the filter panel, filter items can now be sorted by preference.
- Bug fixes

### 2024-09-09

- Loan status information now shown in the library holdings list
- Library list now contains more detailed information and search functionality
- Spelling suggestions next to search result
- Access and usage policy for cover images
- Loading indicator
- Bug fixes

### 2024-06-27

- Changed default number of hits per page to 20
- Added search on result list for people and subjects
- Hide labels for free text queries and add quotes instead
- Bug fixes

### 2024-06-12

- Improved help text
- Selectable text in search results
- Improved pagination

### 2024-05-29

- Standard free text search
- Filters to narrow down search results
- Result list with pagination and sorting options
- Pages for detailed information about materials, including which libraries hold them
- Pages for persons and subject terms listing related materials
- Boolean search logic in the search box. Example: pippi SPRÅK:"lang" hasInstanceType itemHeldBy:"sigel S"
- Basic search filtering that excludes upcoming titles (preliminary information) or electronically deposited resources, with the option to manually deactivate.

Commit message:

feat(lxlweb): Leading pane (LWS-385) (#1319)
* Layout adjustments
* Add components `AppBar`, `LeadingPane`, `TrailingPanes`, `Draggable`, `Toolbar`, `SearchResultToolbar`, `SearchResultInfo`, `SearchResultSort`
* Remove component `SiteHeader`
* Rename component `SearchResult` -> `SearchResultOld`
* Add `Throttle` util & add `leftPane` `userSettings`
---------

Co-authored-by: Johan Bisse Mattsson <bisse.mattsson@kb.se>

lxl-web/src/routes/(app)/[[lang=lang]]/about/en.md, after:

---
title: 'Help'
---

# About

<i>WARNING: Automated machine translation</i>

### Why a Public Beta?

This public beta version of the upcoming service is a step toward gathering valuable feedback from real users. We are working toward transparency and inclusion to achieve a successful result. This means that the beta version is being shared before all functionality is in place or fully developed.

### Share Your Thoughts on the New Libris

You're welcome to try out the service and [share your feedback through this form](https://survey.kb.se/librisbeta/en). Your opinions matter!

You can find [answers to frequently asked questions in the FAQ](https://www.kb.se/samverkan-och-utveckling/libris/fragor-och-svar-om-libris-nya-soktjanst.html).

### General Information About the Search Service

The new Libris search service will eventually replace libris.kb.se. The old service is technically outdated and needs to be replaced, not least to meet legal requirements for accessibility in digital public services.

This beta version is a first step toward a service that will bring several improvements for users.

A cornerstone of Libris is the information model based on linked data used to describe the content of the catalogue. The new service is built with a more direct connection to this model, making it both simpler and technically more robust. It also means that changes made using the Libris cataloguing tool are reflected in the search service without delay.

The goal is also to build a more user-friendly interface while improving and expanding many of the existing features.
With a more data-oriented design, some of the text may initially feel more technical than before. This is something we will continue to refine. The visual style and graphic design of the service will also evolve and improve over time.

### A Selection of Planned Improvements

- Improved layout and information in the search result list
- Better presentation and selection of information on detail pages
- Improved categorization of material (types), such as book, e-book, poster, newspaper instead of “text, electronic” (see below)
- Enhanced interface for advanced search functionality
- Ability to save searches and material lists
- Citation tools
- Searching within specific subsets
- Libris as a local library catalogue

### Improved material categorization:

The material categories (or "types") visible in the current beta version will eventually be replaced if they are not clear enough. Terms like "Text, print", "Instance", "Monographic resource", and so on will be replaced with clearer terms such as "Journal", "Audiobook", "Poster", and "Postcard". The goal is understandable and usable types that will stand the test of time.

In today’s libris.kb.se, labels like “book”, “e-book”, and “poster” are calculated in the search service in a complicated way, based on a multitude of data points. This unnecessary complexity is partly due to the limitations that existed in the catalog when the service was developed. Alongside the development of the new search service, we are now working to improve the catalog's data and information model. Because the new search service more directly reflects the catalog, improvements will be visible as soon as they are made.

Different terms and degrees of precision may still be needed in different contexts. However, these differences can largely be captured in the common catalog model instead of being tightly bound to different services, as they are today.

## Version Information

Here we will continuously provide information about newly added features and planned developments:

### 2025-06-19

- Layout modifications including an adjustable left panel

### 2025-06-01

- Links to library catalogues in holdings modal

### 2025-05-13

- Design updates
- Filter on free online material
- Bug fixes

### 2025-04-24

- Ability to set and filter on favourite libraries

### 2025-03-11

- Add advanced search functionality

### 2024-11-07

- Cookie settings

### 2024-10-14

- Improvements in the filter panel, filter items can now be sorted by preference.
- Bug fixes

### 2024-09-09

- Loan status information now shown in the library holdings list
- Library list now contains more detailed information and search functionality
- Spelling suggestions next to search result
- Access and usage policy for cover images
- Loading indicator
- Bug fixes

### 2024-06-27

- Changed default number of hits per page to 20
- Added search on result list for people and subjects
- Hide labels for free text queries and add quotes instead
- Bug fixes

### 2024-06-12

- Improved help text
- Selectable text in search results
- Improved pagination

### 2024-05-29

- Standard free text search
- Filters to narrow down search results
- Result list with pagination and sorting options
- Pages for detailed information about materials, including which libraries hold them
- Pages for persons and subject terms listing related materials
- Boolean search logic in the search box. Example: pippi SPRÅK:"lang" hasInstanceType itemHeldBy:"sigel S"
- Basic search filtering that excludes upcoming titles (preliminary information) or electronically deposited resources, with the option to manually deactivate.
